html (HYPERTEXT MARKUP LANGUARGE) terms:
opening/closing tag
attribute
attribute value
anchor
element (term within a tag)
parents elements vs children (nested with parents) elements.
---

CSS

selector: which HTML element to select
properties have values
a rule is the combination of a selector and all its properties
colors: named colors; hexadecimal (the firs two values are red, second two green, third two blue); rgb
font-size: px; rem (relative to browswer default, typically 1rem=16px); em, relative to a previously establish size in a parent div
---
UTF-8 default unicode encoding for HTML5 (Unicode Transformation Format)
Unicode: a character set that transforms characters into numbers
encoding: transforms numbers into binary code.

HTML heading, paragraph, and unordered list elements are block level: each appears on its own line on the webpage.

HTML image and anchor elements are displayed inline: they appear on the same line as their neighboring elements on the webpage.
set position to relative if you want to move elements from their default positions using top,bottom,right,left.
active is a pseudo-class selector, only when element is being clicked on.

----
COMMAND LINE

cd (pwd): set current directory
dir (ls): direct children files of current directory
dir .. (cd ..): moves back up one directory
mkdir (mkdir): add a directory to current directory
fsutil file createnew xxx.xxx x[number of bytes] (touch): create new file in current directory
(echo "XXX" > XX.txt) : create text file XX.txt with text "XXX"
(cat XXX.txt) : show content of txt file

    > redirects standard output of a command to a file, overwriting previous content.
    >> redirects standard output of a command to a file, appending new content to old content.
    < redirects standard input to a command.
    | redirects standard output of a command to another command.
 
----

    git init creates a new Git repository
    git status inspects the contents of the working directory and staging area
    git add adds files from the working directory to the staging area
    git diff shows the difference between the working directory and the staging area
    git commit permanently stores file changes from the staging area in the repository
    git log shows a list of all previous commits


    git checkout HEAD filename: Discards changes in the working directory.
    git reset HEAD filename: Unstages file changes in the staging area.
    git reset SHA: Can be used to reset to a previous commit in your commit history.
